I started listening to Green Lights.
There's a story in it from when he was
like 20. He'd gotten into the University
of Texas. He was pre-law. He met some
people at Texas that had convinced him
that he should switch to film school.
And he had immense anxiety about sharing
this with his father. But he finally
tells his dad. And his dad utters this
very simple phrase, "Well, don't halfass
it." And he said in that single moment
he gave him blessing, consent, approval,
validation, privilege, honor, freedom,
and responsibility. Called it rocket
fuel.
>> All right, Bill. Great to see you, man.
>> Good to see you.
>> And I thought we would start with a prop
that you brought. So, there was a very
thick book with a tattered cover, and I
think that is as good a lead in as
anything. What are you holding?
>> I'm holding a book called The Last Laugh
by Phil Burgerer. The reason it's
tattered is I think it may be out of
print. Like I bought it used, you know,
because I wanted to see it and have it.
>> What's the subtitle?
>> The Last Lap: The World of Standup
Comics.
>> Why do you have this book? Are you Are
you thinking of making a career switch?
>> No. [laughter]
So, as part of researching my new book,
Running Down a Dream, my coowriter and
I, we spent six years just diving
through stories because I had done this
speech at the University of Texas and we
wanted to enhance it, you know, when we
went to the printed form. And one of the
stories we came across
was Jerry Seinfeld and his decision, you
know, to pursue a career as a comedian.
and he was in New York.
He wasn't sure what he wanted to do with
his life. He had an inkling, an inkling
that he might want to be a stand-up
comic, but he didn't know what that
meant. He didn't know if it was a real
career. He didn't know that you could
make money. And he read this book and it
profiles, I don't know, it looks like 15
different, you know, it's got Woody
Allen, Bill Cosby, George Carlin, Lily
Tomlin, Robert Klein. It profiled them
in a way that was very disinhibiting to
him. It gave him permission to go do
this career that's not a typical career.
Right. It like when you go to college,
they don't list stand-up comedian as
something that you can go do.
>> You know, the guidance counselors are
generally putting that on the multiple
choice.
>> Exactly. But but this book served as
something that granted him permission to
go do that.
>> And we're going to come back to that. I
will I will say that I bookmarked this
for future conversations and of course
we're chatting outside of these
recordings but because two years ago
almost exactly when we did our first
episode you mentioned that you were
working on a book idea based on the
belief that it's easier than ever to
rise up because access to mentors and
information is unprecedented. So we'll
come back to that of course and discuss
it and the frameworks and the approaches
and the stories at some length but I
wanted to start with some topical
subject matter.
AI bubble or not? [clears throat]
[laughter]
And if so, what does that mean?
>> Yeah. So, I think this is super
interesting. My my partner Peter
reminded me of a book that we had seen a
a while ago by Carlaua Perez. It has
this very benign title, Technological
Revolutions and Financial Capital. It
was written in like 2002.
And what Perez
kind of simplifies and notices, which I
just find perfect for trying to
understand whether there's a bubble or
not, is that every time there's been a
technology wave that leads to wealth
creation, especially fast wealth
creation, that will inherently invite
speculators, carpet baggers, interlopers
that want to come take advantage of it.
think of the gold rush, you know, and so
people want to make it a debate. Do you
believe in AI or is it a bubble? And if
you say you think it's a bubble, they
say, "Oh, you don't believe in AI." Like
this gotcha kind of thing. And if you
study Perez, and I I think this is
absolutely correct. If the wave is real,
then you're going to have bubble-like
behavior. like they come together as a
pair precisely because anytime there's
very quick wealth creation, you're going
to get a lot of people that want to come
try and take advantage of that or
participate in it. So, you get a flood
of those types of people coming at it.
[clears throat] And so, it's odd.
There's a real technology wave that's
that's fundamentally changing the world
and there's also massive speculation
simultaneous. Yeah, they come as a pair.
I recall not too long ago, maybe two
weeks ago, saw a short interview with
your friend Jeff Bezos and he
distinguished between financial bubbles
and industrial bubbles and cited, and
I'm paraphrasing here, but 2008 as an
example of a bad bubble, right?
financial bubble versus let's just say
the early 2000s like 99 98 99 2000 where
a lot of very important technology was
created that then was durable after the
fact and created new generations of
entrepreneurs and a lot of economic
growth and he believes that AI would
fall into the industrial bubble category
of things but I suppose given that the
dancing pair you described come
together. How would you think about
investing in private companies, modern
venture capital at this point in time?
And just I suppose as it's changed since
you were most active,
>> a quick comment on that industrial
bubble thing. You know, one thing that
is surprising to me is that even though
I fundamentally believe this is an
important real technology wave, the big
players, even the Max 7 have all decided
to do things from a deal perspective.
You've read about these circular deals
and whatnot.
>> Could you explain what you mean by that?
>> Yeah. I mean, there's a lot of talk out
there, but it all started when Microsoft
invested in OpenAI. Open AI agreed to
buy services from Microsoft. Yeah,
>> which is called a circular deal because
you're giving them money they wouldn't
have otherwise.
>> And when Daario was on stage at Dealbook
last week, he said, "Oh, I can explain
this. It's not that hard. Amazon wanted
us to spend money we didn't have, so
they gave us even more money." And I'm
like, well, that's precisely why this is
a questionable behavior. But it's gotten
bigger. You know, Nvidia's handing out
money, and then Nvidia gave Coree money,
but then also agreed to buy any services
they have left over. this stuff's not
ideal. Like if you [clears throat] were
say what's crisp, clean accounting, you
know, you wouldn't do these kind of
things. And some of them say, well, it's
not material. And which I would say,
well then why are you doing it? I've
asked other people to try and understand
how even big sophisticated companies
might get speculative using a word from
the previous discussion. And I hear
things like, well, you know, [snorts]
loss aversion tends to go down when
you're winning. Like if you're on a hot
streak in a casino, you take more risk.
Things like that. But it is surprising
to me when it comes to retail investors.
I mean, I would be particularly
concerned for them at this stage in the
AI game because there is a plethora of
SPV vehicles. You've heard that phrase,
I'm sure. SPV. This is where someone has
an in on an investment and they do a
oneoff VC fund if you will special
purpose vehicle.
>> Yeah. It's a single entity just for that
to invest in X. We have an allocation of
however much money and then they can
allow sort of Jane Doe and John Doe
potentially
>> and they take a rake on it and there's
people promoting SPVS in situations
where they don't even actually have the
underlying stock or maybe they hope to
get it. It's the wild wild west and most
of the people on that edge I would put
in the category of interloper carpet
bagger these are people that have come
to this thing and I just think you got
to be quite careful the the investments
[snorts]
>> that were made that have already had
100x plus returns were made a while ago
you know before this thing started
>> and that's not to say there won't be an
incremental AI investment that makes
money I think there will but your odds
right now of of that being the case are
really really low.
>> Yeah, I would add to that and say, and
this this applies to me as much as
anyone else, but your actual risk
tolerance
may differ probably does differ
significantly from your your perceived
risk tolerance if you haven't had a huge
draw down, right? if you haven't
actually ridden a few of those waves and
see how you respond in those
circumstances
and you should be I suppose skeptical of
how you view your own intestinal
fortitude with some of those things or
maybe the losses you can absorb because
I recall for instance I've seen this
many many times but with these types of
SPVS people get involved and let's just
say they're not typically an angel
investor they don't have the experience
of watching 60 70 80% of their
investments go the zero or become the
walking dead and they sign off on all of
the not necessarily waiverss but they
accept accept accept on like the SPV
terms of service which all say you could
lose all of your investment this is
incredibly risky.
>> Yeah.
>> But then when it does go to zero you
know the financial and psychological
impact is catastrophic.
>> There's a lot there's a lot of people
and I think this comes from a very good
place. I think they're very
well-intentioned who look at the world
and say, you know, well, first of all,
you know, rising inequality, like why
can't everyone have access to the same
things? And and then companies are
staying private longer. So they say we
need to institutionalize
the generic public's ability to invest
in private companies. And the problem, I
think there's two problems. one you just
hinted at which is most private company
VC backed even go to zero like the
majority which is not something people
really they sense that they want the
lottery ticket they want the the Uber
they want the one that goes to the moon
>> but they don't understand that that
comes along with it
>> they don't want to buy losing lottery
tickets for 12 years
>> right exactly and the second problem is
the information transparency in the
private company gain is just low. And I
think [clears throat] the institutional
investors have come to understand that
and kind of know what they're getting
into and know how to evaluate things.
But if you come at it with a public
market mindset thinking, "Oh, every set
of financials I've been handed is is
audited and is correct and like that's
just not the case. It's it's super
loosey goosey." So, if you were, this
may be a difficult question, but if you
were angel investing
right now, how would you be thinking
about your approach?
>> I'll tell you a funny story. When I
decided to hang up my gloves, if you
will, and stop making institutional
venture capital investments, I had a
whole bunch of ideas about what I wanted
to do next. And one of them was, oh,
I'll do a bunch of angel investing. You
know, Bezos did it on the side. You
know, this would be fantastic.
>> He did pretty well with his angel
investing. [laughter]
I was explaining this to a I won't say
who it is but a a Silicon Valley CEO
very successful and he said 'What are
you going to do now? I said I was
thinking of doing angel investing. He
goes why would you do that? [laughter]
He said I got 50 of these things. People
don't return my calls. He goes I wish
I'd never done it. [laughter]
So there is a unglamorous side to it as
much as there is a glamorous side. And
you've participated in this world
before. What would I say? I think if I
were doing angel investments, I'd try
and find an intersection of people that
are super curious and are playing with
all these AI tools, but bring a
perspective from a particular industry
that gives them an advantage in that
area where they could simultaneously be
maybe the smartest user of AI in their
genre, in their vertical. So despite the
or maybe because of because we talked
about the pair
the AI bubble, you would still be
looking at AI intersected opportunities
if you were angel investing.
>> Yeah, there's a weird reality out there
right now and it this could end if ever
a bubble is popped or whatever, but the
institutional investors have zero
interest in non AI deals.
>> Mhm.
>> Zero. It's more black and white than I
could be successful in
>> for people who do not know the term.
Define the institutional investor.
>> People who are paid both a a salary and
a piece of the return to be active
investors of other people's money using
other people's money. But the reason
that kind of matters is if you angel
fund a deal and have any hope of it
raising money in the future, if it's not
AI related right now,
>> could die of neglect.
>> There is no interest. I can't state
clearly enough how there's zero and and
I could I could simultaneously make fun
of that reality, but I could also
justify that reality, but it is the
reality right now. And by the way, while
I mention that, I feel obligated for
your audience. Like, I don't care what
field you're in, you should be playing
with this stuff.
>> Like, it has the potential to impact
your role in your career. And the best
way to protect against any risk of your
career being obuscated or eliminated
from AI is to be the most AI enabled
version of yourself you can possibly be.
How would you think about maybe you can
give a hypothetical example of looking
for someone who has very very
sophisticated domain expertise
and experience who's now intersecting
with AI and has a unique because of the
combination perspective on things to
invest in as an angel investor separate
that from something that's just going to
be consumed by the fundamental the kind
of fundamental models and these larger
companies
>> from a career perspective. perspective
or
>> from an angel investment perspective,
how would you pick folks you don't think
are just going to end up working on
something that gets replicated in short
order by the bigger companies?
>> The key is just to stay pretty far away
from the edge of whatever. I mean, you
can go online and see interviews with
people at Anthropic or OpenAI and what
they're working on. Like, if it's the
next thing they're going to do,
>> I don't think you're going to be
protected. But as I think about, you
know, founders and angel investors,
you're talking about a pretty broad
array of things at this point, as I
mentioned earlier, you're not going to
back the next big model company.
Besides, if if you were, you need a
billion dollar angel investment to go
make that happen. Like, it's just really
the game's changed. There's so much
money involved. I think you're going to
want to be off the beaten path anyway.
When I think about these deeper
verticals, I don't think it will make
sense for OpenAI to go crush every
little vertical
>> waste management.
>> And even if the model's capable of
understanding that subject matter, there
are workflows, there are data sets that
are local to your customer and that
stuff has to be stitched together. Mhm.
>> So I think having an understanding of a
particular industry and and one that's
not going to be on the next thing to do
list at OpenAI would probably be your
best bet.
>> Got it. So is it fair to say if I'm
understanding you correctly that
effectively looking for something that
would not be a high priority for one of
these larger companies and also a
proprietary data set of some type?
proprietary data sets. The more kind of
workflows that exist are are better
because you can build software around
those things.
>> What is a workflow?
>> The thing that popped in my head, I'm on
the board of Zillow. You know, Zillow's
been investing for the past 5 years in
tools that help the realtor do their
day-to-day job.
>> Mhm.
>> They have a tool called Showing Time
that helps you book inerson tours at
houses, as an example. But there's
putting the mortgage together, getting
the sign offs on, like there's just all
these tasks that have to be happen that
can be automated.
>> Tasks that can be automated that can be
integrated with AI. The more of that
stuff you can build into a system, the
better off you're going to be protecting
yourself from a model that just answers
questions, right?
>> Which is why which is why I brought it
up.
>> Let's move on to big topic, big country,
China.
You spent 10 days there over the past
summer. What was your experience? What
did you see? What made an impression?
What did you do?
>> I'd been about six times before. So,
this is like my seventh trip. One thing
that was different, my daughter is Asian
studies major, as you were.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> And she spent the summer in Hong Kong.
So, we picked her up and then we toured
six cities in 10 days.
>> [snorts]
>> And my objective with this trip, in the
past trips, it was mostly just to meet
with entrepreneurs and founders and
mutual sharing of information, that kind
of thing. This time I was more
interested in just kind of being eyes
wide open and learning. And so we took
two of the high-speed trains, you know,
just as an experience set. I got a tour
of the Xiai factory with their new car,
the SU7, and was trying to get a feel
for what's kind of most recent there.
And we, you know, went to Shenzhen,
Overnight City, which has gone from, I
think, less than 100,000 people in 1980
to 20 million people, just to see the
scale and scope of the whole thing.
There's a lot of rhetoric in the US
about what is or isn't happening in
China.
>> [snorts]
>> and I just wanted to have a better feel
for it and and we're making policy
decisions that are going to impact, you
know, the global footprint and god
forbid, you know, end up in a World War
II kind of situation. So anyway, I just
wanted a better understanding. I was
aided by the fact that Dan Wong shared
his book Breakneck with me right before
I left and I read it while I was there,
which was interesting. and then it came
out and of course it ended up on the
bestseller list. But I think China's
misperceived in a lot of ways.
>> What are some of those misperceptions?
>> The biggest one is that people who have
a rudimentary understanding
of
what is happening there.
Use this word communism to infer a lot
of other things. And one of the things
that's inferred by communism is top-own
state-run system. And they think they
think of Russia and they assume well
that'll always lead to bad capital
allocation, no innovation because they
have this picture of in their mind of
these brick buildings like with snow all
around them and not much happening.
>> And the reality there is just far far
different from that. I think Dan Wong
did a great job of explaining how the
country puts out this five-year plan,
but then the provinces, which are
they're a lot bigger than a US state,
but they're the equivalent like it's how
the country segment and they compete
with each other. And [snorts]
the effective mayor of the province, if
he if he does well, has a chance to move
up in the system, which is not a reality
in the US system. But what that leads to
is just a massive amount of competition.
>> What are the metrics by which they're
being judged? Do you have any idea on a
province level? Is it some equivalent of
GDP? It's not the right term, but
>> I'm guessing probably like we could go
talk to AI and get a better answer
[laughter] than I have right now, but
yeah, I would think that's part of it.
Prosperity, employment,
>> those kind of things. By the way, this
provincial competition has also led to
overbuild of buildings. Like it's not
always positive. You know, bridges that
aren't used.
>> Go cities.
>> Go cities. Yes. But you end up with
hyper competition. So the I think the
thing that a lot of people in Silicon
Valley love about capitalism is this
notion of the invisible hand and
competition that leads to innovation and
best practice and the winners rise up
and they're better for it. That is
happening there. And if you read about
the solar industry or the EV industry or
now the the robotics industry, they have
hundreds of different companies
competing in these fields and it's
brutal competition and as a result of
that they're ending up with very
innovative companies which once again I
think people wouldn't prescribe to being
possible in [snorts] a communist you
know world and remarkable
execution from a industrial standpoint.
So the price points of the products that
that will be sold around the globe are
well below anything that could be done
in the US.
>> How do you go about getting a tour of
Xiaomi factory? I would think that they
would be very closed about that. What's
in it for them? And how do they
>> I don't know if you saw this going
around the internet yesterday, but they
shipped a car to this YouTuber.
>> Oh, yeah. I saw it
>> brilliant and he did like a 15. That's
the SU7. That's the factory I went to.
As I mentioned, I'd been there before.
So, I met Leun, who's the founder of
Xiai, in 2005 when he was chairman of
Joyo, which was a e-commerce company
that Amazon bought. So, he's been around
a while.
>> Yeah.
>> He has evolved into the best thing I
could say is like he's the Steve Jobs of
China right now.
>> Mhm. when he quit doing yo-yo and he had
this other company as well. He declared
10 years ago he was going to build a
smartphone just out of the blue. I'm
going to build a smartphone. He didn't
have any smartphone experience. But Xiai
is now the third largest manufacturer of
handsets in the globe. And about four or
five years ago at about the exact same
time Apple hinted they were interested
in building a car. He said, "I'm going
to build a car."
>> Well, not only did he say, "I'm going to
build a car." But that was a response to
sanctions, right? It was an emergency as
I I listened to one of well I listened
to the translation of even though my
Chinese is decent but it's not as good
as it once was his I think it was 2024
>> that's it
>> companywide address where he talked
about the sanctions coming in saying
what if we couldn't make phones what
would we do
>> that talk is unbelievable and it it's
translated on YouTube and I would
encourage people to watch from about
minute 30 to about an hour
which is where he talks about his
process for designing the car. I don't
know if you saw that part. I did,
>> but it's crazy. He says he put a note on
any car in his parking lot that he had
never drove and he would ask each
employee to give them three positives,
three negatives, and loan him the car.
Said he drove 200 of his employees cars.
When you hear that kind of stuff, you're
like, "Wow, I wonder if anyone at Apple
did that." I mean, it's just such a kind
of bottom up just ground truth way to
start the process. But even still, even
if you did that, like a bunch of people
could do that. How do you have the
wherewithal to build a factory? He'd
never built a factory before. I've been
in other car factories here in the US.
It was phenomenal. Anyway, back to your
question. Why I could get in is I I knew
late June from way back.
>> What does the process look like? Are
there a bunch of clearances and you have
to get the okay from the provincial?
>> I don't think we went through the whole
factory, but no, I mean, they're a
public company. I think they're
interested in
>> being well understood.
>> Yeah.
>> Which I think hints at why they enabled
this. I think they had to send a car to
this guy,
>> the YouTuber.
>> Yeah.
>> And by the way, the president of Ford
went over there about 6 months before I
did. went on the same tour. So, they let
him go there and he had an SU7 shipped
to to Michigan and he drove it for
several weeks and he's talked about how
incredible it is.
>> Well, he also, if I'm remembering
correctly, has talked about EV
production and battery dominance or at
least component dominance from China and
the sort of risks inherent in that. I
don't want to bleed too far into
geopolitics, but it's hard not to pull
it into the conversation. So, this is a
question from X, the artist formerly
known as Twitter. One of many questions,
but I'll ask what what are your top
handful of critiques, say, of the
Chinese tech ecosystem or CCP after
going on a tour there? What would you
say they're not doing well or things
that complicate their ability to
compete? The first one that's I think
been well publicized is when an
entrepreneur has risen to a level of
success and then uses that as a platform
the government seems uninterested in
that. So
>> exhibit the jack.
>> Yeah. Exactly. And there's a saying that
I think I heard while I was over there.
Don't be the tallest tree.
>> Don't be the tallest tree. The nail that
sticks out gets hammered down. In Japan,
they have a totally different system.
Obviously,
>> the other entrepreneur outside of Leune
is the Bite Dance CEO and Bite Dance
probably got the leading position for
the consumer AI like OpenAI but over
there right now
>> in addition to just incredible revenue
growth. This is the company that owned
Tik Tok and whatnot.
>> But they're not going public and you
don't see him at all.
>> Mhm. you know, which may get to this
tallest tree thing.
>> Yeah. I mean, celebrities also disappear
over there. No doubt. Very mysteriously.
>> Yes. And business people.
>> Yeah.
>> So, yes, that does happen.
>> I will say and for people who are
wondering, right? Because the there are
a lot of how should we put this? I mean,
there are people who are very angry,
very hawkish. Some people are very very
supportive and then their agendas or
alliances get questioned. I like you am
just interested in understanding what is
happening to the extent that I can right
what is the actual truth on the ground
what are the details and frankly I mean
the innovation over there is is
remarkable and what they've done in
terms of establishing access to rare
metals and everything they need to
manufacture is remar you go to South
America or Africa and it is Chinese
everywhere on infrastructure projects I
mean they've been very very smart about
it. So, I'm deeply interested in in all
of it. And please hold your thought
because I want to hear everything you
have to say. What I would say is a a
piece of the threedimensional chess that
I've been impressed with is how well the
Chinese government is able to well I
mean of course they're able to integrate
with the private sector so that they're
able to use in a sense products to widen
their scope of access potentially like
DJI for instance great example people
have a lot of questions around these
cars as spectacular as they might be Are
they an extension of surveillance?
Right. These are open questions that I
think are worth asking. But you were
about to say something, so I'll let you
hop.
>> No, no, no. I I think let me make one
point and then let's come to that. So
there's two other things I wanted to
mention.
>> Obviously infrastructure. So they are
building new nuclear fision plants. So
fision being old school, not new school
at 1/4 the price that we do it here in
the US. So is South Korea, by the way.
>> Yeah. And the numbers are incredible.
>> But when we sit here and say, "Oh, we
want to reshore manufacturing and they
can build things at 1/4 the price we
can." If you don't solve that, you're
going to reshore something and we're
going to not be price competitive
globally.
>> And then because you won't import what
they have and you're going to make our
citizens buy this new from this new
factory where we're making things way
more expensive. It doesn't work. Like
>> the math doesn't matter. It it doesn't
And by the way, I'm not not sure it
brings jobs. The Xiai factory was a a
third based on some numbers I was able
to acquire, a third the number of
employees per car output.
>> And I got to believe in 10 years it'll
be a sixth. And so [snorts] you could
calculate the total number of jobs you'd
be bringing back if you brought back all
this car production and it'd be hundreds
of thousands. It's not millions and
millions of jobs. So anyway, that
infrastructure thing's for real. And and
I think Dan Wong does a good job of
saying that America is run by lawyers.
>> He's the author of of breakneck.
>> Our country is run by lawyers and theirs
is run by engineers. And so when you try
and build something here, the lawyers
just get in the way and try and block
it, which certainly when you hear Elon
talks about why the gigafactories here
in Austin and not in California, it all
relates to those things. So anyway,
that's infrastructure. There's another
thing that's I think quite interesting,
which is the government may not care
about [snorts] whether or not their
companies have really big market caps.
>> Mhm.
>> And when I first realized this, you
know, you saw what happened when they
they took down Alibaba when they went
after Jack and Ant Financial
[clears throat] could have been this big
thing and it got, you know, haircut and
you question, well, do they care? And if
you are pushing your companies to be
lowcost providers, maybe that's at odds
with them being hyperp profofitable and
really big. And then you can turn around
and ask the question that hearing that
caused me to ask the question, does
America really benefit by the fact that
the Mag 7 have $3 trillion market caps?
I know the employees of those companies
do, but is that a sign of of our
competitive capitalistic society not
being truly competitive
>> on a global scale?
>> And even within like there's a notion
you learn about in economics classes
called pure competition. And in pure
competition, no one has an intellectual
property advantage. Marginal profits are
whittleled down just to the cost of
capital. on the consumer benefits
because there's no excessive profit
capture. If we have all these companies
that are able to kind of have excessive
profits, is that a form of market
failure?
>> Mhm.
>> And does the fact that they exist help
America in any way? I at first I of
course I'm a venture capitalist. I want
to think yes, of course. But then as I
think about it, I don't know that our
government or our society or our people
are better off because these six
companies have three trillion dollar
market caps.
>> No,
>> it's not that many people that the
percentage of the country that's
employed by those companies is small on
overall basis. And so anyway, I think
they have a different perspective on
whether big market caps matter. And I
think that is somewhat intriguing. What
do you think about the innovation in
China leading in some cases to the
development of superior technology at a
lower cost that is
plausibly an extension of the
intelligence gathering apparatus of the
government? Is that a real thing?
>> I'm not in a good place to know.
>> I would have to imagine it seems like
they would have to be stupid not to use
>> that given their ability to penetrate
private. certainly well known that they
do surveillance in of their own people
and I know that would be particularly
upsetting to people like Greg Luciano
that you know runs fire and is very
interested in free speech.
>> The flip side is there's very little
street crime. You walk around,
>> you don't worry about that when you're
there.
>> Yeah, it's true also in Japan though,
right?
>> Doesn't make it right or wrong. It's
just it is what it is. And I don't know
that we have this ability to kind of
tell them how they have to do it. Now to
the extent that the Huawei stuff where
their products are being shipped out and
then those are used to gather
intelligence out of their country and
the rest of the world, of course that's
a problem.
>> Yeah.
>> But I think the way to deal with it, I'm
not a politician, but I think the way to
deal with it, I'm more of a believer of
of the engage. Engage. talk about what
you don't like and what you do like and
try and negotiate that problem away like
we're trying to do with the fentanyl
precursors. [clears throat]
>> Yeah. Well, way back in the day when I
was an East Asian studies major, this
was lifetimes ago. And keeping in mind
like I was at the capital university of
business economics in 1996.
That was the bicycle era. You know,
these old photographs of Beijing with
Oh, yeah. millions of bicycles with
people in their long green jackets. I
had one of those jackets for the
winters. It gets really cold. But things
have changed a lot. At the time I was I
was looking forward and thinking I might
be one of those people who could engage
in Chinese. I think the way to do it is
in English frankly for a whole host of
reasons. But even if you speak the other
language like Putin speaks English
pretty well but he does all of his
[laughter] negotiations when he's
speaking in Russian for a lot of good
reasons. Same good reasons. First of
all, I do get accused of being like an
agent of the CCP or something even by
some of the people that responded to
your your Twitter thing [laughter] and
right
>> I'm not I've only visited a few times. I
don't know anybody in the government.
But I worry greatly that we make bad
policy decisions if we misunderstand
what's really going on.
>> Oh, I agree with that. I fully agree
with that. I mean, I've thought about
I'm frankly I'm worried about it. I
mean, I would take a burner phone and a
burner laptop. I've thought about
because I want to get a better
understanding of the culture of
innovation that can be fostered and
exactly how things are to the extent
that it would be visible to me how
things are developing in China. I've
thought about going there. I thought
about doing the same thing in India too
to go and interview like 10 of the top
entrepreneurs, right? But the reason I
haven't done it is that I'm just like, I
don't know what radars that's going to
put me on, what kind of surveillance,
what kind of fill in the blank. I how
difficult is it going to be? Who am I
going to whose rings am I going to have
to kiss? Am I overthinking it or is it
still
>> I think you're overthinking it. I think
the odds that Tim Ferrris would
disappear in China is really
>> Oh, I'm not worried about disappearing.
That would be a terrible that like the
upside downside on that doesn't make any
sense. I I'm not worried about
disappearing.
>> There are companies that may not speak
with you. Like when I was there,
deepseek and unry, the word was kind of
out on the street that they're not
meeting with Westerners.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, for reasons that are
>> Well, it's a I'm sure that's true.
Conversely, in the US, too, right?
>> Yes. Oh, yeah. And by the way, I think
that reflective, you know, lens when you
think about the country is helpful. Like
when Alex Karp was just on stage at
Dealbook last week, he was talking about
surveillance and he says, "Well, of
course, our tools are used to surveil
the the enemy."
>> Yeah. And and I'm like, okay, well, you
know, my god, the Chinese are
surveilling us, but obviously we're
surveilling them, too. Like, like, let's
be honest about these things.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's a lot easier for a
bunch of obvious reasons. In some
respects, a lot easier for them to
surveil us than the other way around. I
mean, partially just due to the
homogeneity of the society over there,
right? You can't like send a bunch of
blondhaired, blue eyes, black, latino,
whatever to China to end up at like top
universities, top companies, etc. It's
just a lot hard.
>> By the way, to bit of bow on this part,
like I would I would say there's two
other things. One you hinted at. one,
the supply chains are so integrated in
China down to the raw material level
that even if you brought a factory back
here, it'd be more of an assembly shop
and you'd still be sourcing from there,
which isn't necessarily cost
competitive. And to replicate all of it
would take a very, very, very long time.
>> Yeah. Well, including raw materials for
staple pharmaceuticals. I mean, there's
a lot going on. So, what at this point,
is it a day late and a dollar short for
the US? I know I I almost promised we
weren't going to go into this, but I I
want to know your opinion. I'm so
curious. What are the keys to the US
remaining
globally competitive and vibrant as an
economy? You hinted to one, which is I
mean, it seems kind of inevitable,
nuclear power or more power. So, how do
you do that?
>> [snorts]
>> I'm not sure how quickly you can write
the ship, although it seems like a
handful of people have done a pretty
good job of changing the narrative. What
are some of the key things in your
opinion that the US needs to do?
>> One is make it easier to build
>> build companies, build
>> I think build infrastructure. If you're
going to build semiconductor plants, if
you're going to build nuclear plants on
time and on budget, that's very hard to
do in the US right now. And the glimmer
of hope, I would say, is that a few
states seem to have governors that want
to get stuff out of the way. And I think
it's red tape and bureaucracy and
lawyers and litigation that make this
stuff so expensive. And so Texas and
Arizona seem to be getting their unfair
share of data centers and semiconductor
plants. And I think because of that
attitude, I've seen a [snorts] similar
attitude in Pennsylvania, you know,
where they repaired I95 in 12 days, but
they literally had to take a bunch of
statutes that are on the books and say
that they don't apply right now. So that
mindset, I think, needs a lot more
momentum.
>> That'd be one thing. There's another
thing that I think is important for
people to understand on the China front.
There are numerous
people with a loud microphone that will
say, "Oh, they know how to scale out
plants, but they don't know how to do
any innovation." And that's just flat
wrong. Whoever's saying that just hasn't
been there. They don't know the facts on
the ground. These entrepreneurs are
every bit as good as the entrepreneurs
they are here. There are examples like
in LAR, they built a Mims Liar product
that's like $130 a car. The light.
>> What is MEMS's LAR?
>> State uses solid state semiconductor
technology instead of that big spinning
radar.
>> Yep.
>> And so the LAR on a Whimo is five grand
>> and it's 130 bucks for MEMS lighter
they're putting on every car. You can go
in the chat GBT and say tell me about
MIM's LAR innovation in China. It's a
great example. Le June's another one.
Anybody that thinks there's no
innovation is just
>> Yeah. They're just wrong.
>> They got blinders on.
>> Yeah. No, that's not true. That's
definitely not true. I asked you two
years ago if there are any countries
that you're long on. At the time, I'd be
curious if this is still the case. You
said you're long on the UK. Less
regulatory capture.
>> Did I say that?
>> Losing party pay is in the legal system.
>> I do love that. [laughter]
>> Which reduces frivolous litigation
compared to the US. Any thoughts on
where you're bullish these days? Well, I
ironically Matt Ridley was in town a few
weeks ago and also rational optimist.
>> Yes. I love his stuff, but he would say
that I would be dead wrong on that. That
[laughter] things aren't going well
there. So, and he lives there. So, I'll
just take that as I got that one wrong.
[laughter]
>> Well, I mean, it depends on the time
frame, too, right? Is it two years or is
it 5 years or is it 10 years? One of the
things that's been impressive about
China is, you know, since Deng Xiaoing
kind of brought back capitalism, 500
million people have come out of poverty.
And you look at countries that have a
very strong work ethic and a high
education and a low
currently low peropulate income and you
would think more jobs would come their
way. So two that would pop for me are
Vietnam and Turkey [clears throat]
>> who kind of check all those boxes.
Hopefully I do better then [laughter]
check in in another two years. All
right, so let's let's talk about this is
going to be a segue to talking about
running down a dream and all things
involved with that. Maybe we could start
with an anecdote from a fellow Austin
knight. Likes to play the bongos. long
hair associated with smoking reefer
every once in a while. [laughter]
Matthew, we're talking about a short
anecdote
>> about Matthew before we started
recording. Would you mind sharing that?
>> As I was kind of wrapping up the book,
>> I started listening to Green Lights and
I was told you had to listen to it cuz
of course he reads it so you get all the
great MCA affections as you read it. But
there's a story in it that just popped
in my brain and kind of summarized
exactly what I'm trying to accomplish
with this book, Running Down a Dream.
And he had spent the vast majority of
his young adult life, so this anecdotes
from when he was like 20, 21, telling
his family he was going to be a lawyer.
And so he'd gotten into the University
of Texas. He was pre-law. Every time he
went home, he talked about, "Yeah, I'm
gonna be a lawyer." And he had met some
people at Texas that had convinced him
that [snorts] he should switch to film
school. And he had immense anxiety about
sharing this with his father. His
father, this is all in the book, but his
father's a very tough individual.
[snorts]
And so, reason to be fearful, you know,
when you're gonna drop some news. No
longer going to be a lawyer. I'm going
to go to film school. And he builds it
up a lot in the book, like I didn't know
when I was going to talk to him. Like
you can imagine being in that situation.
You're delaying, delaying, delaying. But
he finally tells his dad. And his dad
utters this very simple phrase, "Well,
don't halfass it." [snorts] And he says,
you know, of all the reactions he could
have had, don't halfass it were the last
words I expected to hear and the best
words he could have ever said to me. And
he said in that single moment he gave
him blessing, consent, approval,
validation, privilege, honor, freedom,
and responsibility. Called it rocket
fuel. And I'd like to believe there are
a number of people out there, young
adults, maybe even some mid midlife
career, who have this notion that they
should be doing something else, but
society has [snorts] put them on a path
or just the way they metriculated
through college put them into a career
that they just don't love and that they
have this inkling that they could go do
this thing. Or maybe you're a young kid
and you really want to do X, but
everybody else is telling you to do A,
B, and C. Like, I want to help them have
the confidence and permission to go do
X, to go chase this dream.
>> And as you hinted at from our last call,
I think the amount of your ability to
make connections and to gather
information and learn on your own pace
has never been better. You can literally
just sit there and talk to Chad GPT six
hours a day if you so choose and learn
so much about any particular field. And
so like your ability to take things into
your own hands and to go try and be
successful in this thing that you feel
passionate about I think has never been
better. Why do you think when you
initially gave and subsequently had to
go online run down a dream as a
presentation, why do you think that
took? Why did it strike a chord in the
way that it did? What do you think it
was? I think we've built a society like
nobody's fault like we just have built a
society where we love to celebrate
people that are successful in a lot of
different fields but when it comes to
our own children we tend to think way
more pragmatically about what they
should be doing. [snorts] you know,
lawyers, consultants,
doctors, computer scientists, like it's
all these jobs that have certainty to
the financial component. And I think
that's like so well intended. Like I
don't think there's mal intent of anyone
in the system. And I'm a parent of
three. Like I've been through this. You
just feel this obligation to try and
push them towards prosperity. But it's
not intellectual prosperity. It's not
happiness. It's it's financial
stability.
>> Yes. That most people are guiding
children towards. This isn't that
complicated a math, but most people end
up working 80,000 hours in their
[clears throat] life. It's a third of
your life. Why do something you don't
like? There's Gallup poll data on career
engagement and 59% of people say they're
not engaged at work. And this is that
whole quiet quitting thing that we hear
so much about. And some of these numbers
are at an all-time low. And it just
seems horrific that people are kind of
sauntering through life.
>> What are some of the keys to
taking the path less traveled than in
this case, right? There are few I
highlighted for myself, but where should
we start? I highlighted one for myself.
We don't have to start here, but go
where the action is. I just think this
is so underrated
and people it further undervalue it
maybe in a digital world but we can
start anywhere you want. That's just one
that really jumped out to me because I
think it's really underrated. But where
would you like to start
>> in the book? One of the things that we
tie together very early on is the
interplay between
passion or fascination or curiosity and
learning. And the way to be most
successful in any endeavor, but
certainly if you're going to go tilt it,
something that's less pragmatic
>> is to be the smartest, most
knowledgeable person you can possibly
be. And knowledge is free now, as we've
talked about. And I have this test for
whether or not you're actually
truly passionate about what you're
trying to do, which is do you selflearn
on your own time? like would you not
watch Breaking Bad and read about this
field and be energized by that activity?
>> Mhm.
>> If you are and you know we have 20 30
different stories in the book of people
that have been successful almost all of
them check that box.
>> You just have this amazing ability to
gain knowledge so much faster than
everyone else you would be competing
with.
>> Mhm.
>> And that's going to be useful. that's
unquestionably gonna be useful.
>> It makes me think of an interview I saw
a long time ago actually. It was quite a
few years ago, but it was an interview
with Joe Rogan and he said something
that surprised me. It might surprise a
lot of people, which was along the lines
of he's not good at it was either
willpower or discipline, which is he's
in great shape. Obviously, he's black
belt in jiu-jitsu. He's done what he's
done with the podcast. He's the
undisputed king of podcasting, etc.,
etc., etc. And he said, "I'm not
actually good at whether it was
discipline or willpower, but I am good
at obsession. It's all on or all off."
And I've seen that. I'm sure you've seen
this in a lot of the entrepreneurs who
actually make it to the other side and
create these mega successes. They are
just obsessed. And [clears throat] that
gives them a huge not just knowledge
advantage, but endurance advantage. You
just go down the check boxes. It's all
advantages.
>> I had the opportunity to talk to Angela
Duckworth when I was working on this and
her book Grit talks about two
components, passion and perseverance.
And I heard a podcast she had done
recently where she said if she could go
back,
>> she would put far more weight on the
passion than the perseverance because
she says we've taught our children to
grind. Mhm.
>> And so once again, starting in sixth
grade, they're told to learn the flute
and take lacrosse and do all this stuff
and crush the SATs and take the extra
credit classes and all this and they all
do it and then they go to college and
how you doing? They take six hours of
class instead of four and they're just
going. But eventually, she says, if you
don't have that passion, you just burn
out. And so you're right about the
energy part. I think it's both knowledge
and you put in more cycles.
>> Yeah. It makes me think of maybe this is
cliched in Silicon Valley because it
gets so oft repeated, but a lot of folks
listening will not have heard it, which
is if you're looking for the next sort
of technological breakthrough or
something on the edge, look for what the
nerds are doing on the weekends, right?
It's not just a great way to find what
might be coming around the corner in a
few years. It's a great way to find the
people to bet on who are already using
their excess their free time to work on
these things. No doubt. I think of Bri
Pettis and 3D printing. I mean, I can
just go down the list.
>> And by the way, that's another advantage
of going to the epicenter is there's
more people doing that all the time.
>> Let's talk about people might be
surprised by this, but Bob Dylan, right?
I think this is just like the
quintessential example. Why is he
relevant to what we're talking about?
When this idea popped in my head, I had
finished a third biography and
contrasted it with these other two and I
just saw all these patterns. You know,
VC is a game of pattern recognition. I
guess my brains just developed. I was
like, "Oh my god, I saw this kind of
lock thing where these three people had
all done the same thing." And one was a
basketball coach, one was a restaurant
tour, and the other was Bob Dylan. You
know, not people you would not industry,
oh, this is where you should get career
development advice, right? There's a
part of the Dylan story that most people
wouldn't know unless they had read all
the biographies or maybe seen the
Scorsesei documentary, but the new movie
misses the whole thing, which is the
pre-new York Bob Dylan was hanging out
in Minnesota studying folk music at such
a deep level that I feel confident in
saying when he left he knew more about
folk music than any other human in
Minnesota. and he was borrowing, maybe
that's even a euphemism, he was stealing
his friends albums. He was going into
the record store into these listening
booths. Like he knew all there was to
know and had studied every bit of it.
And he's referred to by Scorsese as a
music expeditionary.
And the people that knew him in New York
said he could mimic any one song. It's
not what you would think of when you
hear a Dylan song that he had kind of
mastered the bedrock underneath and then
started innovating. Picasso, by the way,
the same thing. [snorts] Perfect realist
painter at age 14. If you go to the
Barcelona Picasso Museum, it's in
geographic order and you're kind of
shocked at how good a realist this this
kid was before he went and did this
other thing. That bedrock knowledge I
think is so differentiating
>> for someone to have [clears throat] all
the history and then to start doing the
innovation. What was the before and
after on Dylan sort of Minnesota
New York City and why is that such an
important
>> but it was and just to even pile on more
on this kind of studious part of Bob
Dylan he did a podcast series for a
while where he just walked through all
these different genres of music and
>> you're talking about Bob Dylan himself.
Oh, I didn't realize this.
>> You can go find it. He stopped, but he
and then that book he put out of the 50
best songs, the coffee table book that
came out two years ago, it's incredible
the amount of knowledge he has about
songs, [snorts] you know, outside of his
genre, everything. So, he's a clear
student of what he's doing. I think this
is well known and is covered at the
beginning of the movie. He went to New
York to find Woody Guthrie. probably the
single kind of most deterministic and
ambitious mentor pursuit story that I've
ever heard of. [laughter] Like he
hitchhiked there with no money.
>> Mhm.
>> And found him and became friends with
him.
>> This echoes back to go where the action
is also.
>> Oh, no doubt. And by the way, he landed,
you know, in Manhattan at the center of
the folk music scene and all those
people he was studying when he was
listening in Minnesota, they were all
there.
>> You know, he got to know them all. If
that doesn't happen, I don't think Dylan
happens. How relevant do you think the
go where the action is now considering
the access to information
using chat GPT or other tools etc etc
etc maybe less so access to mentors
although you can have virtual
relationships but how how relevant do
you think that is I've got my own
opinion but
>> you could certainly
have the type of peer and mentor
experiences that are remote. I have a
great anecdote about Mr. Beast in the
book that we could talk about that was a
remote one, but the benefits of being in
and around a whole bunch of people that
are chasing the same thing is so high
like and I think the intuition is, oh
well, it's going to be even more
competitive, so why would I go? It
wouldn't it be better to try and do this
in a town where it's less of a big deal?
But the problem is your learning is
impacted. Your access to peers and
mentors is drastically reduced and then
probably most importantly your
optionality gets cut so dramatically.
People think that a lot of success
stories they attribute it to luck but
you know there's that famous saying luck
is when preparation meets opportunity.
And when you're in the epicenter, both
your preparation and your opportunity go
up, you know, 10x. And so your ability
to just have that lucky moment where you
get brought into something is so much
higher.
>> So the lucky moment is, I think, really
important to underscore in terms of
going where the action is because
there's a lot you can do virtually, but
let's just say you're using chatbt,
you're going to get what you prompt. In
other words, like you're asking for
something. Yeah.
>> And that can take you down a rabbit
hole, but there at least in my lived
experience, and certainly I still see
this happening.
>> When I moved to Silicon Valley in 2000,
and then I look back at my angel
investing career, I look back at all
these collaborations. The vast majority
of them did not come from me going out
with an agenda and seeking something.
They came from serendipitous
bumping into somebody at a coffee shop.
I literally met Naval Ravikov because I
was hitting on his girlfriend at the
time when she was getting her coffee.
Didn't realize they were [laughter]
together. And then you look at Garrett
Camp, Kevin Rose. These are like at a
barbecue. I met Kevin Rose. And you go
down the list and you look at all of
these formative, massively impactful
personally and professionally
relationships. They almost all came from
serendipity. and you just don't seem to
get that density unless you're in the
center of the action. And perhaps it's
easier to relocate yourself. I'm sure it
is when you have fewer responsibilities.
But God, I can't even imagine what my
life would have looked like had I not
left Long Island and then ultimately
moved to Silicon Valley.
>> Same for me. I had thought about the
notion of venture capital and practicing
it and probably would have jumped at any
job I could have got. Like when I was at
Mcomes here in Austin, I tried to get an
interview at Austin Ventures like I
didn't get one but had they said yes
maybe I practice there and I I'm glad
that didn't happen. Going and practicing
it where I did was the exact right place
to do it. I do think if you can because
there are financial constraints you know
if you want to be great at a field and
that field has an epicenter I think you
should go
>> and there are different types of
epicenters too like you think about
let's just say AI not to repeatedly bang
that drum but you could just say okay AI
first thing that comes to mind Silicon
Valley but this is going to be a bit of
a digression but I remember asking Derek
Civers a friend of mine amazing
entrepreneur kind of philos philosopher,
programmer, people can look him up. But
I asked him, who's the first person who
comes to mind when you think of the word
successful? And he said, well, actually
the most interesting or more interesting
question might be, who's the third
person who comes to mind? Because I
might say something really obvious like
Richard Branson, but is he successful? I
don't really know what his goals were.
So I'd have to compare his goals to his
outcomes. And then you get to the third.
Similarly with an epicenter you could
say Silicon Valley first but there might
be something that is dense in learning
but has other advantages like I think
it's the University of Wateroo but one
of these universities where industry is
trying to raid the academic program
because it's so strong in terms of
teaching the technical side right so
there's so many different ways to
approach it but let's talk about a
virtual example you mentioned Mr. beast.
Could you describe that story?
>> I actually heard it on a podcast, but I
had it I also got a chance to talk to
Jimmy Donaldson, so we got it firsthand.
When he was infatuated [clears throat]
with YouTube, he was one of the first
people that was infatuated with YouTube.
His parents were rightfully trying to
get him to go to school in college,
which he wasn't doing because he was
playing around on on YouTube all day. He
met three other people who were equally
fascinated with YouTube. And [snorts]
this is a virtual epicenter story, but
it's really a peer story. One of my six
principles is embrace your peers. And I
think far too many people have sharp
elbows to peers cuz they think, you
know, they're climbing the ladder and
they've got to beat these people. And
the world's just way too prosperous to
have that mindset. like you can learn so
much and get so much value from
co-climbing
that you should definitely do that and I
think it's [snorts] not taught enough
and people don't do it enough but Jimmy
happened on these three people and they
got on a Skype call he said 20 hours a
day
>> sounds like Jimmy
>> for [laughter] years they shared best
practices on this call which
>> apparently in that world like the color
of the icon on the post you do on
Instagram to send them to YouTube like
all little these little bitty esoteric
things can impact conversion and he said
when he was talking about this that they
all became millionaires and he said if
you or any random individual had been a
fifth person on those calls you would
have too
>> you know because of of that and it's
just a wonderful example of how peers he
on this podcast said something that was
very clever. He took the 10,000 hours
thing from Gladwell and said, "Well,
there were four of us spending 10,000
hours and then sharing ideas, so you get
40,000 hours of expertise."
>> How would you suggest people who are not
on YouTube where you can identify
outliers perhaps I shouldn't say easily
in this day and age? I mean, it's it's a
sea of participants. But how should
people go about seeking peers? And do
you rank order your principles in a way
for instance?
Do you want to first check the box if
you can of go where the action is and
then embrace your peers because the
level will be higher? I think about for
instance my experience in Silicon
Valley. It could have just as easily for
something else been Nashville or New
York City or who knows Shanghai. I mean,
it just depends on what you're doing.
The mentors, let's just say like Mike
Maples Jr. who taught me the very basic
ropes of angel investing. Without him,
like I don't go zero to one in terms of
having any basic literacy or access. So
that was like the first rung on the
ladder. But then once I was in, you look
at people who were in a sense just
getting started at the time. I mean,
holy [__] some of them have really
exploded. I mean, they've all done
really well like Kevin Rose, Naval.
Yeah,
>> Chris Saka, the latter goes on forever,
but like 49 rungs after that initial
step up, 0 to one, it was all peer-
driven, right?
>> And those guys, we were we were
comparing notes the whole way.
>> See, that's the thing I would say, first
of all, I would practice it wherever you
are. I'd practice it virtually. I'd
practice it locally. And if you can move
to the F Center, I'd practice it there.
I don't know that it's an eitheror
thing. You can have multiple groups of
peers. You can have multiple circles of
peers. But I think there's only two
tests and one is trust. There are people
in this world who view everything as a
zero sum game and they will elbow you
out the first chance they can get. And
so those shouldn't be your peers. Those
people you should quickly push to the
side. So trust and then this shared
interest in learning
>> and if they are equally learning on
their own dime in their free time
[laughter] which is my test for whether
you actually truly are passionate about
something if they're doing that also
that's perfect and those experiences
you've talked about I've had so many of
them myself they get excited to tell you
what they just learned right and then
you reciprocate and by the way Mike's a
great example I have a both a passion
and a lot of respect for people that are
writers in their industry and Buffett
did it and Howard Marx did it who I
benefited greatly from. I tried my
entire career to write quite a bit but
Mike [snorts] does this. Mike's very
>> he's a huge sharer when it comes to his
knowledge about the subject matter and
>> pattern excellent book also
>> so great
>> Mike I'm hoping to see him again soon
it's been a minute we've talked about
Mr. beast Bob Dylan in both cases kind
of like poor kids with nothing to lose,
right? In a sense, not in any destitute
sense, but they're starting at like
>> futons and ramen, right?
>> He was just interviewed at Dealbook also
and his mother was in the front row who
apparently works for him now.
>> [laughter]
>> So he was telling the story about when
he went to tell her he was dropping out
of college.
>> You know, similar to the McConna story,
not quite as abrupt, but Jimmy's being
more abrupt, but you know, of course,
she's she's happy now. [laughter]
>> Yeah. It all worked out. I mean, there's
always a little survivorship bias, but
no doubt. No doubt.
>> Let's [clears throat] talk about Danny
Meyer because I want to give an example
of someone who gave something up.
>> Yeah.
>> To then pursue X instead of A, B, or C.
Could you say a little bit about Danny?
You know, I've interviewed him on the
podcast. I might have met him through
you. I don't even remember how I
initially connected with him, but who is
Danny Meyer and what is this kind of
genesis story of Danny Meer, the
restaurant?
>> It's funny. When someone asked me who is
Danny Meyer, I feel compelled the first
thing to say he's one of the most
genuine humans on the planet. Yeah,
>> just a wonderful
>> for sure.
>> But he is also one of the most
celebrated restaurant tours of our time.
He was working for a company that sold
these devices that clip onto clothes so
you can't steal them from a retail
store. Yeah.
>> And he was making good money. He was
making about $200,000 a year. And this
is
>> at the time
>> 40 years ago. So real money.
>> Real money.
>> And he had convinced himself he was
going to be a lawyer. I guess a lot of
people convinced themselves of that. and
he was about to take the LSET and he was
out to dinner with his uncle and you
know his uncle was probing him and
probing him and oh yeah he's going to
take the LSET and he I think his uncle
sensed a lack of real conviction about
this thing this person this human was
going to do and [snorts] he literally
said to him why are you doing this you
know you want to be a restaurant tour
and when you read Danny's book he did
spend a ton of time in his youth being
fascinated with restaurants and to the
point where he would take copious notes
like prior to even doing this. So his
family had a reason to know that he had
this deep passion.
>> But it's interesting. It's an uncle,
right? I don't know that a parent is
going to jump in [clears throat] and say
[laughter] that. And maybe that's an
advantage I have not knowing the readers
of my book in giving him this permission
to do things that aren't necessarily
pragmatic. But anyway, his uncle said,
"You should start a restaurant." And he
took the test. He never submitted the
scores to a university and very soon
thereafter enrolled in some vocational
restaurant courses and took a job. He
took the first job he could get which
was a front office job at a restaurant
that was making about a tenth the salary
that he was making in the sales job
>> and went on to you know Grammarcy
Tavern. I mean, all these iconic
restaurants, then Shake Shack, then I
mean, just dot dot dot dot dot.
>> Yeah. And I we walk through in detail
his path once he made this intention.
And one of the variables that my
coowriter and I were looking for as we
added stories to the book was this
moment of intentionality. We didn't want
people that fell into a job and were
successful. We wanted people that had
made a decision, usually a pivot, to
say, "I'm going to go do this now."
>> Mhm. And once he had made that decision,
not only did he take that job, but he he
took advantage [clears throat] of being
in that restaurant to learn about the
multiple functions, but then he set up a
tour through Europe as a stage in
multiple places where he's working for
free basically.
>> I'm so glad you brought this up cuz I
wouldn't have brought it up myself, but
this is going to relate in a in a
second. I've run a bunch of competitions
for, let's just say, creating artwork
for [snorts]
PDFs slash like free books I'm going to
put out or whatever. And there's always
a big hub where folks get some folks get
very upset and they say, "Oh, you want
people to work for free?" And I'm like,
"Well, there's going to be a winner."
It's like, "If you don't want to
participate, don't participate."
[laughter] But there's always this kind
of shaking of the fist like, "Ah, it's
so unfair. You want people to work, do
work for free." When I look at almost
every example of someone who became the
equivalent of Danny Meyer in their
world,
they did a lot that was unpaid almost
always. I'm sure there are exceptions,
but it's like you staging is a great
example in the restaurant world where
it's like, okay, you want to work at a
restaurant where where you're going to
have the highest density of learning and
you don't know [__] like guess what?
they [laughter]
they probably don't want to pay you a
whole lot cuz it's actually going to be
a bit of a drain on their resources to
show you around and teach you how to
work your station and do all this stuff.
So, I would just encourage people to not
be allergic to that. And the way I got
in a sense my foot in the door in
Silicon Valley was I volunteered at TAI
the indis entrepreneur. I volunteered at
your entire I volunteered [laughter]
with all of these nonprofit groups
>> and quickly realized that most
volunteers are doing the absolute
minimum to be volunteers. And if you
just do 10% more, it doesn't take much.
I would just refill people's water
glasses and stuff after I finished
taking their tickets for an event. And
suddenly the producers of this event who
were also doing it but had like real
jobs, I mean I had a job at a college
shirt and I was working a lot. They were
like, "Wow, this kid's a go-getter
because he's refilling these water
glasses. Let's give him more
responsibility." And that's how I ended
up connecting with all these speakers
and everything. Just did some stuff for
free on the weekends. It didn't take a
lot.
>> There's a story in the book that's
actually hard to believe. We profile
this woman, Jen Atkins, who's a hair
stylist. [clears throat]
It's an incredible story. But the one
anecdote, she's rising in her career and
things are starting to work and she has
jobs and she's getting paid. She would
go to fashion week in Paris and sneak in
the back door and volunteer [snorts] to
do the hair of the models on stage. like
snuck in [laughter] like not supposed to
be there just to get reps with these top
models in this environment.
>> Incredible. It
>> It sounds unfathomable that someone
would do that. She did it multiple
times.
>> And she did it.
>> Yes.
>> What ended up happening after that? I
don't know her story.
>> She's become probably the most
successful hair stylist of our time.
[laughter]
It's an incredible story.
How do you suggest
people who are maybe they're doing A, B,
and C right now, they're listening to
this and they say, "All right, I want to
take the leap. I want to do Z. I want to
do whatever the off-men option is."
>> Yeah.
>> They might have to have a conversation
with parent. They might have to have a
conversation with a spouse. They might
have to have a conversation with who
knows, whoever the the most important
people are in their lives. How might
they approach that? And we're going to
talk about choosing paths in a second
cuz I do have a question about maybe how
to sanity check yourself in the world of
AI. But how do you suggest having those
conversations? Do you moonlight for a
while so it's not either or? Do you time
box it or make it time bound in a sense?
You're like, "Hey, just give me
permission to try this for 6 months, a
year, two years."
>> It's interesting that I think any of
those approaches is realistic. We
profile Sal Khan in the book of Khan
Academy and he told his wife he wanted
to go try it for a year.
>> Also, he worked at a hedge fund just
like Danny Meyer. He was making real
money.
>> Wow. I didn't realize that about
>> started working with his cousins across
the globe online doing these tutorial
exercises and ended up posting a few on
YouTube. They started working and he
told his wife, "I really want to go tilt
at this." He didn't even know what the
business model was and he went and
changed it. I think the real [snorts]
test comes back to
this passion element or we use a lot of
different words cuz passion's been kind
of considered trit but fascination
curiosity. If you have this deep desire
to know so much about this one thing
that that curiosity is so high, I think
the odds that that's not apparent to
whoever these people are you're trying
to convince is pretty low.
>> Mhm.
>> Cuz if you're going to tilt at something
that hard and if you're going to really
differentiate yourself by being that
learned in that field, I think it'd be
hard for someone to tell you not to go
do it, you know?
>> Yeah. It's not going to be easy and I
don't want it anyone to think that oh
just read this book and magic happens.
It requires effort and that's why this
test matters so much. This test of
whether you would learn about this thing
on your free time
>> and maybe are you already learning about
>> are you already learning about it on
your free time?
>> Yes. No doubt
>> at least that one
>> you should be. You should be you I doubt
you turn it on history.
>> Yeah. Well, actually, I I have an
example of someone who just turned it
on. We have a chapter called Never Too
Late, which is where the Scon thing is
because that happened when he was close
to 40. Another local Austinite, Bert
Tito Beverage, started his endeavor in
the spirit business.
>> So, while I was just thinking about him
while driving here for no good reason,
>> at the age of 40, he's watching a PBS
special.
>> This is also hard to believe. He's
watching a PBS special and back when
probably when there were only four
channels or whatever, but they said on
the screen they said, "Take a blank
sheet of paper, draw a line down it, put
what you love to do on the left and what
you're really good at on the right, just
a list of those things and then
contemplate what might be in the
middle." and he had studied chemistry
and a lot of stuff and he liked going
out to bars and socializing and he was
making flavored vodka as Christmas
presents in his spare time.
>> What was his day job?
>> His first career was in seismatology and
and like the oil field and that dragged
him to South America and then when that
became dangerous both both in Midland
and in South America he became a
mortgage broker.
>> Okay.
>> He didn't love either of them.
>> Yeah. But the reason I brought it up
when you said like already I don't know
that he was already studying the spirit
business but once he made that
intentionality to go do this then he
studied it writ large.
>> How did he start? Just out of curiosity
because I was just thinking about him
beverage just acquired Lao Tequila which
I was involved with.
>> That's probably why he popped to mind.
But how did he start? He first started
by just studying the distilling process
writ large, like read everything he
possibly could. And then it turns out
there were no distilleries in the state
of Texas and there were laws on the
books that made it nearly impossible. So
then he had to study that and and
literally rewrite regulation to make it
possible. Interestingly, he did the
whole thing on credit cards. So he owns
100% of the business.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is a huge business. It's the
single largest spirit sold in America.
Didn't realize that. I didn't realize it
was that big.
>> It's huge.
>> Good for him.
>> Yes. [laughter]
>> That's so wild. I promised to get to
this and I do want to get to it. Are
there any sanity checks that you would
put in place to complement the
fascination/obsession
slash what I'm doing in my spare time or
would pay to do or do for free? because
I'm wondering if there are any things
you you would take off the table or how
you would hone that given the rapidly
developing
technology of AI. So if someone said you
know what I love to do in my spare time
is copy editing I might not suggest that
they
>> throw caution to the wind and
>> burn the ships and go into copy editing.
Any thoughts? Because this is something
that is
>> Well, the first thing I would note is
that many of those pragmatic jobs that
the well-intentioned parents have been
pushing their children towards are at
risk.
>> Yeah, for sure.
>> So, so Compai,
>> right? Yeah. Risky, but as compared to
what, right?
>> Compai went from being the the most
least risky major you could possibly get
to one that's somewhat risky like
overnight. And so, that'd be my first
like notion. And you know the second
thing I would add to that which I
already said is no matter what your
endeavor is, you need to be playing with
this tool. It's a modern tool. It's the
equivalent of a laptop and Microsoft
Word was. It's equivalent of what a
calculator was. Like you don't want to
go out in the world and play without the
modern tool set. It's a part of what you
need. If you're playing with those
things and you're curious, you know
where the edge is of whatever you're
passionate about and what the technolog
is capable of
>> in order to find that edge and follow
that edge, right, which will move, you
have to be playing with the tools.
>> Yeah. And I think in any field, one
thing I love to suggest on the on the
learning side is know the history and
know the the new innovative edge. If you
bring both of those things to the table,
you are highly compelling. That could be
true even if you're not chasing your
dream job. Even if you're just a
marketing major, if you walk into an
interview at Clorox and you can
simultaneously show that you've studied
all the historical best marketers and
you also understand how Tik Tok works,
that's heavily differentiating in that
interview. Like you're going to get the
job, I would argue, versus someone else
if you can portray those things.
>> How would you apply that here? Is that
just I guess field dependent or are you
referring to AI?
>> I think AI is the leading edge of almost
any industry. So yeah, I'm saying you
should just study what it's capable of.
The thing that LLMs are most capable of,
it's a large language model, the
language type stuff, your copy editing
example, like things that were just
wrote moving words around. Yeah, it's
really good at that stuff, but it
doesn't mean that you can't be the
person that really understands what it's
capable of and then like superpower
yourself to go attack a particular
interest. You had started the question
by saying like warnings, you know, I
think there are a lot of fields where
talent really does matter. I don't know
that I can make you a singer. I
certainly can't make you an NBA
basketball player. But in all those
fields, whether it be Hollywood or
sports or, you know, even Danny Meyer at
one time thought he was going to be a
chef and he just became a restaurant
tour. He wasn't a chef. I would say that
there for any artistic field, there are
way more jobs that support those artists
than there are the jobs of the artist.
>> What do you mean by that? I mean, we
have an example in the book of a
Hollywood agent, and that individual had
not thought about a job in Hollywood
when they were growing up because they
felt they couldn't act. So, they're
like, "Oh, I can't go do that." But
there's tons of jobs.
>> I see what you're saying. Hollywood
entertainment
>> that aren't the talent itself. So if
you're passionate about basketball or
you're passionate about, you know, the
chef example of a restaurant, there's
tons of jobs you can go do music
industry without being that particular
person.
>> This makes me think of a interview I was
watching recently, Patrick Oanessy,
Invest with the best. He was
interviewing Ari Emanuel. So famous
super agent. Yep.
>> Force of nature. His whole family is
just like drinking different water. I
don't know what's going on there, but he
has raised a ton of money to invest in
live events, sports, and so on as an
anti- AI or maybe AI anti-fragile
bet, right? There are lots of ways to
make money when you raise a lot of
money. So, putting that aside, any other
AI resilient or anti- AI bets that you
think are interesting outside of live
events, live sports?
>> I think a lot of the service industries,
I think humans enjoy
experiences and I don't think that
changes personally that much. restaurant
tours or hotel years like I think all
those things [snorts] are gonna thrive
and people that know how to really
differentiate experiences in that way.
>> I don't share this thought that we're
all going to go watch movies that we've
imagined that are made just for
ourselves. I find that hard to believe.
I think people enjoy great art in many
different forms. They enjoy talking
about it and they enjoy the community
element of having seen the same thing.
>> And so it may be that if you're a movie
maker, you're using AI instead of this
expensive CGI tool set. But I think the
storytelling and the imagination and the
writing, I think all those things will
still be real. I really do. And
obviously just general business
entrepreneurship. I took my dad who's 93
fly fishing in in Montana this summer
and we were at a lodge and one of the
other guests that was staying there is a
28-year-old
entrepreneur from the tip of Texas down
near Corpus Christi area and he had
started like three or four businesses
and was well off like I'm not saying but
he was so enamored with AI he said and
then I needed this and then it did this
and then I needed this and then it did
this and then like I I wanted to know
where to put the next one of these and I
just asked it where would you put it in
the city and it immediately gave me
answers. This guy was already successful
but he was running triple speed because
he had tipped into this stuff and he was
learning what was possible because he
had an open mind towards it solving
problems. And I thought, "Holy [__] if
other people kind of just leaned at it
the way he's leaning at it, they would
become superpowered themselves." I was
like really blown away by that.
>> Yeah. This makes me think of Kevin Rose.
Kevin Rose is spending the vast majority
of his free time playing with all these
tools, vibe coding, using them
endlessly. And I I feel like that is
probably over the next few weeks where I
need to put some more time.
>> Yeah. and just take a layup with
wherever it happens to intersect with
someplace that makes it easy to apply.
Who's Sam Hanky? [laughter]
>> Sam Hanky is a gentleman that about I
don't know six years ago became maybe
the youngest GM in the history of the
NBA. He became the general manager of
the Philadelphia 76ers.
>> Why is his story relevant?
>> He was a amazing student. He grew up in
Oklahoma. His father worked for
Hallebertton. He made good grades, good
students, kind of classic, did
everything right.
Became a consultant. I think he was
working for McKenzie and [clears throat]
and they moved him to Australia. And
he's sitting there and he's reading
other things in his spare time. He's not
reading about how to be a better
consultant. and he reads a book called
Moneyball which we all know of the
Michael Lewis book about the Oakland A's
in almost what seems like an instant
decided
>> I really need to be in sports analytics
and I mentioned that a lot of the
stories we found have this
intentionality so that book just like
the Seinfeld [snorts] the last laugh did
for Seinfeld that book told him I'm
going to go do this and from the day he
read that book to getting the job as as
the head of GM of the 76ers was about 10
years. So no experience whatsoever in
the field to youngest GM of all time in
10 years.
>> Was he obsessed with sports already at
that point?
>> I think so. You know, this gets back to
what I said about maybe your original
obsession came from participating or
being the talent, but then you know,
he's not particularly big and so he was
successful in high school, but there was
no path to keep going down that field.
So yeah, he had immense passion for the
category, but had never imagined himself
in the field, you know, in one of these
other roles until that book kind of
disinhibited him and gave him permission
to think, well, you know what, I could
be differentiated on this dimension of
understanding analytics. He immediately
was applying to business school and he
used that as a pivot point for those
that have the the needs and the
resources. I think an NBA programs can
be a great place to switch careers and
go chase a different dream. And there's
a great interesting anecdote in the book
where he's trying to decide between
Harvard and Stanford, which is a choice
most humans
>> quality trouble.
>> Yeah, [laughter] exactly. But he went
and told them both what he wanted to do
and Harvard basically said, "Well, we
don't really have any programs like
that." And Stanford, to give Stanford a
lot of credit, said, "You know what?
That's super interesting. We have, you
know, this person associated with the
school that does this. We we'll
introduce you to these four people and
we're a lot like MCA's dad when Sam
brought him that that challenge.
>> Sounds about right. That checks out for
me.
>> Yeah. Based on [laughter] what you know
of the two institutions.
>> Yeah. You know, he ended up meeting
Michael Lewis because he was in the Bay
Area and some of the Stanford people
knew Michael. And so he talked to the
guy that wrote the book that inspired
him. He hustled his ass off. Like I
don't want to make it sound like he kind
of built his own curriculum, but it
worked.
>> For people who are not going to get an
NBA, would you still suggest everyone
read the first three chapters of Michael
Porter's competitive strategy techniques
for analyzing industries and
competitive?
>> Unquestionably, anyone that's going to
do anything in business should read that
book.
>> All right. Want to give the throwback to
our first conversation. By the way, at
the back of the book, I list about 50
books at the very end
>> just to wet the appetite. Well,
>> I think you did the same thing. In fact,
I looked at yours for the structure when
I wanted to see how to lay it out.
>> Oh, amazing. Amazing.
>> I want to get your expansion on avoiding
false failures. Let me explain what I
mean by that. So, there's this
expression, if you do what you love,
you'll never work a day in your life.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. It's in my note,
>> but my experience has been it's not
always fun. Even if you're doing what
you love, sometimes there's burnout.
Sometimes you go through chapters where
things do feel like a grind. I mean,
that maybe I'm an outlier, but that's
been my experience, right? When when I
realized, for instance, in the case of
the podcast, it's like, wow, I have much
more sponsor demand than I could ever
fill.
>> If I just doubled the number of
episodes, I'd double the number of
revenue.
>> Yeah. So why don't I do that? And it
started to feel like a bad job. Not a
bad job. It's still a great job, but the
volume was too high.
>> Yeah.
>> And I can imagine if people take the
expression I just mentioned, right? If
you love what you do, you never work a
day in your life. They pursue X,
whatever that is, the songwriting in the
case and the performing, the kiss of Bob
Dylan, Danny Meyer, whatever it might
be. And then they hit a really hard
stretch. Maybe it's early on, maybe it's
later, maybe they're staging and there's
some French guy yelling at them as as
the case with a friend of mine
>> and they're like, "Wow, God, you know,
this this really feels painful. Maybe
this isn't my path."
>> Yeah.
>> How do you distinguish between
growing pains that are temporary
and an indication that you're not doing
the right thing? It's funny, I'll take a
short diversion in answering the
question because people often ask me,
you know, how do you use AI? When I was
wrapping up the book,
my publisher and editor said,
>> you know, I want you to write the
concluding chapter and I wrote [snorts]
what I think most people would do, which
is I just summarized the whole book and
I submitted it to him and he said, "No,
this is [clears throat] this is no
good." And so then I went to chat GPT
deep research mode and I said tell me
about the 10 best
non-fiction concluding chapters that you
know of.
>> Mhm.
>> And it went and did like a 20page report
and sent it to me. And what I noticed in
reading that was that the most of these
great concluding chapters were
orthogonal. They weren't a summary. They
were kind of a different take on the
whole thing. Well, my concluding chapter
is now titled It Ain't Easy.
>> Yeah.
>> To to your point, and I went through all
of the stories that we have in the book,
and I pulled out the darkest hour
moments for each one of those people
>> and included it kind of at the end. So,
cuz I didn't want to leave people with
the impression that it's just all, you
know, smiles and babies and hugs. Like I
don't think that's true in any field.
>> Mhm.
>> And I guess my answer would be do you
still feel this natural curiosity to
learn the entire time? [snorts] Is the
impediment something that is truly means
you should stop like I can't get around
it. I can't or is it something that
maybe can be avoided? Something I can
get around. I push heavily on the peer
thing because one of the things a peer
group can do is help you in those
moments both just from emotional support
but also to put perspective on whatever
this this speed bump is and whether it's
insurmountable or not.
>> Mhm.
>> Mentors can help with that too but I
think peers are better for that because
you worry about being judged in
disclosing this.
>> Yeah. 100%.
>> And so peers like don't judge. So that's
why that trust thing really matters.
Also another reason why it matters. I
think they can help you determine
whether that is as big a blocker as it
may seem like.
>> Mhm.
>> But there's going to be some of that in
any field. I don't think there's any run
that's just, you know, without pain. I'm
also imagining that one of the
challenges that I had and some of my
friends had at different points in
pursuing fill in the blank starting our
first companies just beginning to invest
having a career in X right when I got
out of college it was mass data storage
and hitting these really rough patches
and feeling like
you're the first person in the world to
experience this and it's because of your
unique flaws. or uniquely bad decisions.
And I'm just realizing now I haven't
tried this. I'm sure it would work that
you could just describe the dark chapter
you're going through in to chat GPT or
one of these tools and say give can you
give me any comparable examples from
other people who have succeeded in other
fields.
>> I'm sure that'll work. It'll also give
you five answers on how to deal with it,
how to get around. But by the way, one
thing that's important when we're
talking about this is
>> Daniel Pink has this great book on
regret and he talks about it as a valid
motivator to get you to make good
decisions. And there is a reality that
that anxiety you may feel may mean
you're not in the right lane. And so
when you were at that sales job, you got
to the point where you're like, "Holy
[__] I don't want to be doing this
anymore." Yeah. And I had two careers
before I became a VC. One as an engineer
and one as a sellside analyst. I enjoyed
both. I think I was good at both. But I
reached a point about 3 years in with
each where I was like I don't want to do
this the rest of my life.
>> Mhm.
>> And so I would say equally with like
don't give up too early. But if if the
signal is really telling you I don't
want to do this the rest of my life,
that's jump out. like that's the precise
moment to move on and try something new.
And I spend a ton of time in the early
chapters trying to get people to
understand that's okay. Most people
don't end up in a career that their
major was.
>> I think one of the reasons people grind
too long is because they think they're
supposed to like they just think they're
supposed to stay in this lane they're
in. How did you
conclude
it was time to hop in those in those
cases? We don't have to go into tons of
the background because we we talked
about so much of your history and
decisions and so on, including I don't
want to say stealing Palm Pilots, but
it's a pretty good story about getting a
Palm Pilot with contact information. But
was it just a gut feeling? Was it like a
disqu that you felt in your system, or
was it more than that? I'm sure I've
overplayed it in my brain, but they feel
like very concrete moments where I had
almost near certainty.
The first one was I started my third
project at Compact Computer Corporation
where I was an engineer. And the
projects were these computers we were
releasing. And the third one was
>> another computer with a little faster
clock speed and a better Intel chip. But
the rest of it was all the same.
>> And we were going to do it again. I'm
like,
>> that doesn't seem that interesting to
me. [laughter]
and [clears throat] I had become curious
about other things. So when I was doing
external learning, which is what I refer
to as this kind of spare time learning,
it wasn't that.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, it was something else. I was
reading, you know, Peter Lynch's book on
stocks and stuff like that. So,
>> right, it's segue to the sellside
analyst.
>> Yeah. The thing that happened as a
sellside analyst and this gets into and
and and I may parlay this into something
from the Daniel Pink book, but this
notion of do you want to do this the
rest of your life. I was the the
sellside job is wonderful. You get
access so early in your life to so many
amazing people, but you have to [snorts]
work really hard and you know this
classic thing where you're in your 20s
and you're working on Wall Street. You
know, they serve dinner at the office
like like the cafeteria is open. That'll
tell you something.
>> And it was like 10:30 or 11 pm and the
entire research department was on the
36th floor of Park Avenue Plaza. And I
did a loop. The four corner offices were
the most senior analyst. [snorts] And
for whatever reason, I popped my head in
each of their office and they were
career sell analysts. I said, "Do I want
to be this person when I'm 60?"
>> Yeah.
>> It just stuck in my head. I went to the
next one. Went [clears throat] to the
next one.
>> Hopefully, I don't know who those people
were, but I was uh I was like, "No, I
don't." Like that night, that night
>> I made the decision that I got to go do
something else.
>> No, it's
>> If you don't mind,
>> yeah, fire away. In Daniel Pink's book,
he talks a lot about boldness, regrets,
and and this is where I say, "Do you
want to do this the rest of your life?"
He says, "One of the most robust
findings in the academic research and my
own is that over time, we are much more
likely to regret the chances we didn't
take than the chances we did. What
haunts us is the inaction itself,
foregoing opportunities all linger in
the same way." And he says that they've
studied this across China, Russia,
Japan. It's common across all of them.
And you may have heard of this this
YouTube video where Bezos talks about
his regret minimization framework.
>> Yeah.
>> And so he had the same thing. He's
walking around Central Park. Should I
stay in this incredible job at DE Shaw
where he's making tons of money or
should I take this flyer on this online
bookstore I want to do? And he put it in
his mind that test which is when I'm 80
and looking back am I going to regret
not doing this? Well, it makes me think
of and this is also a dicey proposition
quoting Nicolo Makaveli, but make
mistakes of ambition, not mistakes of
sloth.
>> Yes.
>> Right.
>> It's same thing.
>> And I do think about that a lot myself.
I mean, I'm at a point where I'm trying
to figure out my next chapters, too, cuz
this podcasting game's getting pretty
crowded.
>> It is. and I still enjoy doing it, but
that's only because I refuse to kind of
play by the
incentives that the that the platforms
and algorithms provide, which is like
economically punishing but
intellectually rewarding. So,
>> because you had two successful careers
as not just a podcast [snorts] or
influencer, but as an angel investor, I
would I would encourage you to read
Arthur Brook's book, Strength to
Strength.
>> I did. I did. It was already it was
great. It was great. I think it gives
great perspective for kind of a later
career shift.
>> Yeah, I should go back and and look at
my notes from that book again.
>> Let's chat for a second. People should
should all check this out. I mean,
you're you're such a an operator. Track
record is incredible. Running down a
dream, how to thrive in a career you
actually love. We'll talk about that
again. We'll mention it again at the
end. What do you want to do after this
book? I mean, you you can't sit on your
hands very long.
>> No. As I mentioned, when I made the
decision to stop the venture career,
which I think we talked about on the
last podcast where I read the Steve
Martin book, but I didn't know I knew I
wanted to do something else and I I went
on a listening tour and I talked to all
these people that had kind of
>> Can you just reiterate what a listening
tour is? Oh, I just I identified several
people who had
kind of successfully
retired is a strong word, but made a
decision to stop doing a job they were
very successful at. And then what do you
do now? Like,
>> and it's similar to the Arthur Brooks
book, but it was just a personal like
>> a lot of people angel invest, a lot of
people go on boards, a lot of people
>> manage their own money. Mhm.
>> I had this list people teach
>> and I slowly was checking them off like
scratching them out. Yeah. Like nah,
don't really want to manage my own
money. I don't really want to angel
invest. I don't
>> want to start my own venture firm. I've
done that. And so I found myself
crossing them all off and I couldn't
discover something that got me excited
and tied into this what are you doing
with your external learning thing. And
slowly I've come around to an idea that
I [snorts] made up. So, it's not a
career that other people have, but I I
think I'd like to start a policy
institute.
>> I've come up with a name P3, which
stands for purpose, progress, and
prosperity.
When I was doing the BG2 podcast, which
I recently stepped away from, we did a
episode at the Diablo Canyon Nuclear
Facility. Mhm.
>> And before I did that episode, I spent
three or four weeks calling everyone I
knew to make sure that I was prepared
for that. And that was one of our more
successful episodes. And I just really
enjoyed that. I look at the shifting
mindset around the globe on nuclear
energy in the past 5 years as an example
of what's possible with really great
policy work. And it wasn't one person. I
think, you know, the fact that Steve
Pinker was banging the drum was super
important, but Andre and Elon and all
these people started pounding that same
drum. Joe Gibby's wife, you know,
[snorts] made this like a big life
passion project of hers. But it's
shocking how quick we went from this
stuff's bad to oh no, we made a mistake.
It's actually good.
>> And that could have a powerful impact on
the planet. And so I don't know how many
of those type things there are to find.
I don't want to go grind on statebystate
legislation. I don't have any interest
in that. But looking at big problems,
looking at USChina relations,
US health care system has some massive
problems. You know, can you come up with
ideas that help shift these things? And
I've already got to know [snorts] some
really innovative professors who are
thinking in very innovative ways. And I
I look to use my financial capabilities
to do grant writing through people like
that and see what we can go do, see what
we can go change. Regulatory capture is
another one
>> that I've spent time tilting at. So,
could you elaborate on what if you're
not doing the state-by-state legislative
change, what does the work of P3
potentially look like? Like, what is
policy work? I know that seems like a
silly question, but
>> we're at day one. So,
>> what might it look like?
>> Yeah. Here's an example. A professor
approached me on the regulatory capture
front. What if we
>> could you define that just for people
who didn't hear episode one?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, there's a Nobel Prize
winner from the University of Chicago
named George Stigler. he's passed away,
who made the very strong argument that
regulation is the friend of the
incumbent, that
>> large businesses learn how to lobby
Washington. And
no matter how well intention the policy
is that's passed, it ends up
benefiting the incumbent more than
restricting the incumbent. And he won a
Nobel Prize for that work. I I gave a
speech at the All-In Summit that you can
go watch on YouTube. has like five
million views on this topic, but I think
this happens the majority of the time.
>> So why AC takes three days to clear,
right?
>> Yes. Yes. [laughter] Yes. But stable
coin may solve that. But this professor
approached me about making a maybe a
global database that scores countries on
how captured they are
>> and that identifies the best practices
from the countries that have the best
scores.
that kind of thing like investing in
that type of data and transparency is
pretty compelling to me. So that that's
an example of what I might go do. Well,
let me chew on that for a second. So
let's say you create this
this data set, right, that presents
these scores on a country bycountry
basis. What is what are the hoped for
outcomes of that? That countries that
have worse scores start to model the
countries with better scores. Uh
certainly there might be talent flight
from one place to another. I mean we
already see that in some respects. I
mean that's not purely regulatory
capture determined but what would the
when you share that data what would the
hope be?
>> The hope would be that you can shine a
light on the best practices and and try
to get those implemented
>> in other places
>> here in the US.
>> Yeah.
>> That would be the hope and also I think
just shining a light on them. I'll give
you an example that relates to
regulatory capture. After [snorts]
you've been a senator or congressman for
a while, you get invited onto
committees.
>> Yeah.
>> The minute you're on a committee, you
are in charge of regulation that affects
different industries. Well, what happens
and you most I don't even know if most
humans know this. What happens is your
local senator or your local congressman
who you think is representing your
district now starts raising money
nationally. They go around and meet with
businesses because they're on that
committee and have influence and they're
raising money nationally. I think that's
ridiculous personally and you could
imagine restrictions against that
transparency towards it. If your
congressman represents this zip code in
Austin, wouldn't you want to know if
they're raising money in Minnesota?
Like, isn't that a little unusual? Well,
you shared a story last time we spoke
about being asked to raise a hundred
grand in donations just to get a meeting
with the Congress.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Our mutual friend
Rich Barton talks about shining
flashlights in dark places. This
technology that we have access to. I
think donation should be on the
blockchain quite frankly. Like there's
no reason why this information needs to
be in the dark. I think there's a lot of
opportunity around data aggregation.
>> [clears throat]
>> Any other ideas that are percolating?
>> I'm enamored by
state versus state competition. Part of
it pops into my brain
from the China experience in the
provincial competition,
>> right?
>> But, you know, you see Nome and Abbott
fighting back and forth and maybe there
can be a positive outcome from this.
>> [snorts]
>> And I think some of the federalist
papers kind of envisioned that different
states could try different experiments
and we could see, you know, what happens
as a result of that. But
>> we're seeing some of it.
>> We are seeing Arizona pretty interesting
and provocative
>> and could lead [clears throat] to
positive change. I'd love to see I have
this dream that some state and maybe
this state that we're sitting in that
has a surplus would do something crazy
with teacher salaries. Like what if a
state just all of a sudden said we're
going to pay 50% more for teachers.
>> Yeah.
>> Think about the dynamic that would
create. It'd be pretty [clears throat]
wild.
>> Would be.
>> So maybe I'll go tilt at that one too.
[laughter]
>> So other problems on your mind? Well,
I'll just present a a list here from
some prep notes. We have US healthcare,
regulatory capture, intellectual
property, US, China, fairness and
financial markets, USK12. Could you
speak to intellectual property and
fairness and financial markets? What
those how you might be thinking about
those?
>> I got to be a top 10,000%
supporter of open source.
>> Yeah. And this gets back to Ridley's
book, The Rational Optimist, but he
talks about prosperity comes when ideas
have sex. Yeah. And just the sharing of
information in my mind should be free,
that it it shouldn't cost anything. And
>> it's very unclear to me that the patent
system actually adds value. I I'm quite
doubtful that the human mind wouldn't
innovate if it didn't come with a
17-year financial protection. Like I
just I'm doubtful of that. I think
there's great scientists at every
university working on problems that
aren't necessarily being patented. And
your ability for hyper competition and
innovation is so much higher when there
aren't restrictions in place.
>> So I think the world's a better place
when ideas are are shared and not
protected. How do you think if we're
just since the
the system we're working with is the
system we're currently working with, how
might something like drug development
work without patent protection?
>> Well, here's an interesting thing. The
NIH gives out $40 billion a year and a
lot of that money goes to companies that
end up getting venture capital backing
and then
>> Yeah, I've had some very open fights
with people about this. Yeah. So why
doesn't an NIH grant come with a open
source writer?
>> Yeah.
>> And so if the VCs want to funding propri
Yeah. It's federal funding like
>> Yeah, I agree with that.
>> And right now there's a big fight over
whether just their research papers have
to go on nonprivate
networks instead of the private ones
they're on today. I mean, they just want
the information out there. Like that's a
minor step. I would consider a major
step. And you don't have to take the
money.
>> Yeah. But why is the US government
giving people money that ends up
becoming proprietary inventions? That
that makes no sense.
>> Whether it's the US government or
individual philanthropists or
foundations, I mean on some level if
that then at some point, right, I agree
with that. But are there industries that
I mean the only one that first came to
mind was was drug development where the
R&D costs are so high
>> they all cry. The VCs will tell you
it'll never work. We don't have any
incentive if we don't have a 17-year
protection. Our the entire Silicon
Valley
>> I'm not saying I know I know I just I've
lived in a world where if someone comes
into our office and talks about patents,
we roll our eyes because none of the
types of businesses that we've backed at
Benchmark in Silicon Valley are ever
about patents. Elon has famously open
sourced all his Tesla patents. like it's
such a bold thing to [snorts] do and so
gracious I think really to society but
his point is oddly I was talking to Ted
Cruz about this and he said yeah Elon
thinks the same thing like he views the
the edge of competition is how fast are
you moving how great are your products
consumers love them not [snorts] can I
defend them in a court of law like it's
just
>> and the protection that the drug guys
get is so much like no one can really
use software patents to like get
protection an algorithm or something
like no one even tries.
>> Yeah.
>> But with drugs if I have this particular
genome sequence all of a sudden I get
like this huge proprietary window in the
market. It's just nutty.
>> This is not exactly the same thing but I
mean what a service to humanity. I was
just watching I think the documentary
name and people can watch it for free on
YouTube and other places. the thinking
game about Deep Mind and Demis and his
team releasing AlphaFold. I mean, the
structures of these proteins. I mean,
it's just like, oh my god, what an
incredible
>> Well, there's an article right there.
The the original paper they wrote was
open source. OpenAI doesn't exist
without that discovery which happened at
Google.
>> Yeah.
>> In open source. You know, they just
exploited it the fastest.
>> Wild. And by the way, this I mean not to
divert too much back, but right now
China has 10 open-source uh AI models
that are all in hyper competition with
each other. That is a dangerously
effective primordial soup for innovation
compared to what we have here.
>> Yeah, I should probably know this but I
don't. How does China handle what are
the policies around and laws around
intellectual property, patents, things
like that? Interestingly, I found a a
document online that someone had put
together a PowerPoint about the history
of open source at China and it's 20
years old. So, it's not like they just
stumbled into it. I think
>> when you consider that,
>> you know, go back 20 years ago, one of
the primary criticisms of China was that
they stole IP. Mh.
>> And so if you're the Chinese government
and there's this new thing called open
source, you're going to embrace it
because there's no fault there because
everyone's sharing and everyone and so
if you look at the big open source
projects, Linux, MySQL, and you go on
the web pages like you'll see Alibaba,
Tencent, like these companies have been
supporting these technologies for a
while. every five years they write this
five-year plan, you know, the
[clears throat] Chinese government puts
it out. Five years ago they had a huge
section on open source. So they're
clearly suggesting to the entrepreneurs
that the government favors that approach
and going back to Ridley's book and the
notion of pure competition. I think the
society
>> rational optimist.
>> Yeah, I think the society benefits from
that.
>> I use this example. Imagine there's two
feudal societies that are all
agricultural based. There's two of them
though. And in one once a week the
farmers come to market and just trade
goods and then they leave. In the other
one the farmers come to market and
they're they're required to share their
best practices with everybody else and
then they leave.
>> Going back to this pier kind of example
in the book, that one's going to be much
more performant than the other one. Mhm.
>> And this gets to Ridley's point about
ideas having sex.
>> Yeah. I mean, open source also, we we
talked about this a decent amount in our
last conversation, but it can be used as
an incredible strategy or counter punch
from for-profit companies, right? Like
Android.
>> Yes.
>> I mean, my god. I mean, it's like you
can do a lot. It's an incredibly
powerful tool. I think that using open
source as a defensive tool instead of an
offensive tool is one of the most
sophisticated corporate strategies a
company can possibly do. It's very hard
to do because it goes against all of
your instincts. But I would suggest that
Amazon and Apple and maybe Meta who has
toyed with it should run at the idea of
jointly supporting an open-source model.
I don't think they're doing it, but I
think they should because [snorts] their
incumbencyy's at risk if someone else
has a massive proprietary advantage.
>> Fairness in financial markets. What does
that mean? You know, I've been tilting
against this insiders game of the IPO
market for some time and I'm very
passionate that when you bring a
>> Does that come with the luxury of
retirement or
>> maybe I mean if you tilt against the
investment banks, you got to be
comfortable not going to conferences.
That's for sure. [laughter] They host
some really nice funds and so you fall
off the invite list [laughter] real
quick. The way that an IPO is priced is
so god-awful
stupid. They pick who gets the stock and
they pick the price. And I've said it
over and over again, but a freshman
compsiz student and a freshman finance
student, if you told them to design the
IPO, they would just match supply and
demand anonymously. Like, it's how every
bond is priced. It's interestingly how
every initial coin offering works. And
so I've become late to the game crypto
enthusiast because I'm so sick of this
damn IPO process being broken.
>> Could you say a bit more about how it's
broken? Like just walk us through a
hypothetical example of why it's broken.
>> Yeah. When a company's coming public,
the bankers, they ask everyone for
orders, but then they pick who gets the
stock and they pick the price. They
don't let supply and demand pick. supply
and demand can automatically pick the
allocation and the price. It's not
automatically is the wrong word. Can
algorithmically like this is super easy.
Like it's not hard.
>> Why don't they do it that way?
>> Because they're handing free money to
their clients.
>> There we go. That's what I was looking
for.
>> Yeah. It's been known for a long time. I
uncovered an email from 1999 at Goldman
Sachs, which I've posted on Twitter
several times, where they're like
saying, "Oh, we can use this hot stock
to reward our top clients." They know
what's going on and the fact that the
SEC doesn't get involved really bothers
me. But this tokenization thing is a
real way to get around it because the
crypto community's already decided they
use algorithms to allocate and determine
price.
>> Like the price and the allocation should
just be deter. It's how direct listing
works. Like everyone knows how to do it.
They just don't do it
>> right.
>> You know,
>> it's horrible. There's other things too
in this category. The long kind of
prevalence of Visa and Mastercard is
just ridiculous. Two and a half%
and stable coins have so much momentum
right now. I think those two companies
are going to be in real trouble within a
5year window. Most of the financial
problems are pure regulatory capture.
>> Like the reason that there's a problem,
>> tell me if I'm explaining this well. I
because I'm not sure we said it this
directly, but basically the incumbents
helped to write laws and regulations
that favor them and prevent newcomers
from
>> after9 we wrote this thing DoddFrank and
we thought, oh, we're going to like make
things better and all you've had is
consolidation in banking since then.
>> Yeah.
>> And if you look at the offering,
especially at the low end for the
poorest citizens of the US, free
checking went away. The poor people have
a hard time paying their bills. They
don't even have the tools to do it
because free checking went free checking
went away after DoddFrank.
>> Please push back if I'm oversimplifying
this, but regulatory capture is not just
bad for startups in Silicon Valley who
hope to grow and disrupt and fill in the
blank. It's it's also bad for everybody.
>> Oh, it's horrible for consumers. I mean
the the US healthc care situation which
seems to be getting worse on a daily
basis is a huge example of regulatory
cash. Somewhere in the past 10 years
they just told physicians they can't run
hospitals. They just eliminated I mean
who other than a doctor is going to go
start a new hospital. Like the amount of
competition you eliminated in this one
swoop is [snorts] enormous.
>> Yeah.
>> Just enormous. Now, that's just a single
example, but there's hundreds of them in
that in that area.
>> What would success be for this book six
six months after it comes out? What will
lead you to have been happy with putting
the time in? It's taken a while,
>> right? It's taken a lot of work. What do
you hope the outcome will be?
>> It really started as a passion project
and I I have no financial goals for
whatsoever. In fact, as we get to book
launch, I'm going to launch a foundation
that gives grants to people who want to
chase their dream job but don't have the
financial wherewithal to do it. And so,
[clears throat]
I'm going to start working on that in
addition to P3. For me, it's all about
how many people do I affect in the way
that McConnah's dad did or that this
book did for Seinfeld. Some of them saw
the talk on YouTube from the UT
presentation that I gave and have
already reached out and said thank you
and they've shared how it changed their
life. But the more people I can do that
for, I will just be tickled pink. I'll
just be so excited because I think when
people get out of this pragmatic lane
and go do these types of things, they
they tend to be unusually successful,
which I think then has a bigger impact
than just on them themselves. Yeah,
>> like the number of humans positively
impacted by Danny Meyers success is
>> in the thousands, I'm certain. And I'm
not counting customers of Shake Sh.
[laughter]
>> So people check it out. I mean, I love
your writing, Bill. You're not just a
commentator, right? You've been an
operator. You've observed [snorts] a lot
of operators, studied outliers, and
people who have chosen X instead of A,
B, or C. The book is Running Down a
Dream: How to Thrive in a Career You
Actually Love. Check it out, folks.
People can find you on X atbgirly. Of
course, if they want to see just a
landing page, they can go to
benchmark.com. [laughter]
Anywhere else you'd like to point people
or anything else you'd like to mention
before we start to land a plan?
>> Thank you so much for your time.
>> Yeah, [clears throat] thanks, Bill. And
for everybody watching and listening, we
will have a link to everything we
mentioned. We mentioned a lot of things
and a lot of references and resources.
Just go to tim.blog/mpodcast. You can
check all that out. And until next time,
as always, be a bit kinder than is
necessary to others and to yourself, but
look for X when people give you A, B, or
C, or when you think you're limited to
A, B, and C. Till next time, thanks for
tuning in.